Title: Dossier

I've got to come clean. I wrote the software Dossier.

I meant it to be a satire of the way we sacrifice our own privacy today.
To make the point of treating our personal information as sacred, not
something to be analysed, or followed, or friended. I wrote it to
express how CRMs and Social Networks and paranoia have invaded our
lives. How they have taken our true selves and turned them into pie
graphs and status updates and mere metadata.

I'm not so foolish that I think twitterers are egotistic. Some old
fogies seem convinced that today's generation is self obssessed to the
point that they'll sacrifice anything for their five minutes of fame. I
realize the middle schooler bleeding her heart out on livejournal is not
typing out of some belief she'll be covered on tomorrow's Entertainment
Tonight. We are emotional people, and sometimes the only way to relieve
the weight of our own pathos is to share it. We are social people. We
need to be noticed, admired, feared, awknowledged.

But we've come under the delusion that the person who gives us attention
actually means us well. Where did we pick up such a notion? We're afraid
of terrorists. Of the CIA. Of the soulless corporations whose names we
dare not speak out of fear of retribution. Yet we have come to believe
that our four hundred contacts on Facebook and thousand followers on
Twitter are our friends.

I demand more of my friends. I have friends accross the country, and
associates accross the globe. They are people I can contact at a
moment's notice and ask a favor. Friends don't just get asked favors.
They give them, and with feeling.

I'm not ashamed of my contacts in social networks. I am proud so many of
you would pretend to give a wit about who I am. I am not ashamed that
many of those people merely automattically agree that they know me.

But I digress deeply. Your 'friends' don't always mean well. That's why
I wrote Dossier. Some of the people you think you know just intend to
hold onto your 'friendship' until they can gain real benifit. And then
they'll drop you. If you haven't known people like this, you are truly
lucky.

Dossier was written to learn more about your contacts than they really
want you to know. It's not easy to automatically search public records
for criminal records. To associate properties, phone numbers, and
digital identities. But it's within the power of today's technology, and
it is only going to get easier to find that data. It will only get
easier to find the dirty secrets of everyone you know.

In comparison, cryptographic reputation networks are easy. It's actually
not hard to identify a sybil attack, assuming you want to get useful
information. With everyone watching everyone they know, it's no big deal
to tell what the truth. Split the world into true, subjective, and
false, and you've got more power over history than any dictator or
textbook editor could dream of.

I'm scared you don't realize the weight of all that data that people put
out there. The information you share carries weight. Even attaching your
driver's licence to a check tells a stranger enough to correllate gross
information.

poke
