Weblog entries

All the data I collected in 2011 (money, phones, rescuetime, logs?)


<h2>Memes of the New Web</h2>
<p>Adacio has an <a href="http://adactio.com/journal/1080" alt="Cal Henderson at the Future of Web Apps summit">interesting post</a> where he talks of the ten things that are web 2.0. I hate the term, so I'll call them the new web memes. They are collaboration, aggregation, open APIs, clean URLs, ajax, unicode, desktop integration, mobile access, open data, and open content.</p>
<p>Just looking at these, we see some are more alike than others. Collaboration and open content are the social motivators that are making the web new again. Open APIs, clean URLs, unicode, open data: these things are technological best practices that had to arrive. Aggregation, desktop integration, mobile access: if you didn't know there's more than one way to skin a cat, you must be living in the past. Ajax is in a class by itself because it merely gives javascript the power Java, ActiveX, and Flash have had all along. So what you ask? Oh, I'll tell you.</p>

<h2>Society, both Real and Imagined</h2>
<p>Basic economics, psychology, and ethics all tell you people need motives to do anything. Today we have two societies, each with its own motives to do things. We have property motivated society, and socially motivated society. These two worlds are beginning to collide on the web, and the difference is what seperates the web of the dot com boom with today.</p>
<p>In the real world, they say money talks. Postmodern artists have been commenting on this consumerism since the sixties. While the web started as a place to information for academics, it blossomed when people realized it was great for trading property. The two icons of the dot com boom are amazon and ebay. If you have the property someone wants, for a price they'll accept, you interact. Just as it's been for generations.</p>
<p>But in academia, where the web was born, things are different. Your products are ideas. Ideas aren't bought and sold, they are made public. And the greater your ideas, the greater your reputation, and the more secure your tenure. But tack your name to too many bad ideas, and your reputation is ruined. This is where the web is going today.</p>
<p>As old, proprietary modes of communication fade into oblivion, society's standards for intercourse grow higher. We may pay for email, and blogs, and wikis; but restrain our speech and you will be destroyed and forgotten. Give us new voice, and we will sing your praise. No man is an island, alone unto himself. Force a man to solitude, and you will be left alone. This is the battle cry of the new web collaborators.</p>

<h2>Open Data</h2>
<p>So we see the social revolutionaries who are demanding Free Speech. But how do they bring about open APIs, clean URIs, unicode, and open data? If you've heard of the Tower of Babel, this will sound familiar.</p>
<p>APIs are our interface to web applications. In truth, there is no such thing as a closed API. But those we call closed are, in truth, very restrictive. They are the language we use to communicate with the application. If the language is poor, it will not be spoken. If it is redundant, it will be overlooked. As it is with any man, you may have answers to all the world's problems; but if we cannot speak with you, no one will hear your words.</p>
<p>URIs are the identifiers for all the knowledge on the web. They are the vocabulary we use to refer to you. How can I speak your praise if I don't know your name? Change your name, and your reputation is lost. Your URI is your identity on the web. If your URI is meaningless, so are you.</p>
<p>Even in our digital world, men still speak with words. Speaking these words, we need a way to digitize them. While we could have separate ways of digitizing each language, isn't it obvious that a single way would be better? That is unicode's role. Maybe I can't understand your exact words, but I can have them next to mine, working together though separate, until the day we speak the same language.</p>
<p>Open data is the name for all of this, and more. As we learn, our languages grow to accommodate our knowledge. Today, APIs, URIs, and unicode may be enough. But our digital languages must continue to grow. Digital data is our greatest asset in communication, but to close access to data is to stifle the words of those who would speak before they can be uttered.</p>
<h2>Speech, Free Flowing Everywhere</h2>
<p>The worst feature of knowledge is that it can arise, and die without ever being communicated. Communication has always been free of charge, but often had a cost unrelated to money. Gaining access to that information has been a challenge in the past. We can overcome that now through aggregation, desktop integration, and mobile access.</p>
<p>One of the things most touted by free society is the free press. But the press, in the best cases, doesn't create the news. Its job it to report it, taking the knowledge of the few and spreading it to the public. This is aggregation. Every day, more things are born on the web than I can imagine. We've found new and interesting forms of aggregation since the beginning of the web. Search, directories, and link blogs are great examples. But as APIs become more powerful, better variations on the theme will spring fully formed from their fathers' heads. Even today there are aggregators of aggregators, who tie together blogs, search engines, even the random browsing of users. In this way, the cream will rise to top, and today standard of best will trump yesterday.</p>
<p>But while knowledge loves to be shared, it has to be created somehow. I didn't just type this into the internet in its native tongue. When it comes to creation, we need a place to play with our ideas. Seeing how they interact, join, and are separate, we need time to perfect their form. Wikis are a fine way to do this with words, but sight and sound take more power. Desktops will have a place in creation for a long time. Because of this, desktop integration is necessary. Storing our data, giving us the power to change it quickly, that integration needs to be more than a simple browser can offer today.</p>
<p>But for basic communication, the browser is enough. Slowly, what were our phones are transforming into power. These communicators are growing to handle the web in all its glory. Today, billions demand the ability to talk to each other by way of cellular networks. But millions already want email, aggregation, information in all its forms. And they want it wherever they are. Mobile access to the web is in demand.</p>
<h2>So What?</h2>
<p>At this point, you probably think I've wet myself just contemplating the glory of the internet. Thankfully, you're wrong. But while I've spoken of what is, now is the time to say what should be</p>
<p>Who are you? Do you live simply, with no need of such technology? You could, and I'd admire you for it. But can you say need no human touch? For this, you'd earn my scorn.</p>
<p>As men, we live by and for each other. If you make no one but yourself happy, then we together have no use for you. Every person has the need to satisfy another. While we can't always do that with our physical bodies, we try with our minds. We should seek any way to more easily satisfy those important to us. Thought the web, we can find that ease.</p>
<p>So work as you will, bringing joy to yourself and those you value. See that by open data, you can communicate that work to more. You will find that making more people happy brings greater joy to your work. Make it so that people can use your work more easily, and more people will use it. You don't need to give work away; but hold it to tightly, and no one will gain.</p>

<h2></h2>
<p>A friend of mine wants to know what the Mac equivalent of Microsoft's COM is. I didn't know. Do you know about COM?
