Title: Writing Kit

If you liked Dr Drang's reviews of iOS text editors, there's a new
contender that you ought to check out: [Writing Kit][].

Of course, it has the obligatory Dropbox and TextExpander support. But
it goes much further, it can take you through your entire writing
process. If you make things in the typical [New Jersey approach][], you
know to make it work, then make it right, then make it great. And make
it live as soon as possible.

For making it work, it has a custom keyboard that - Markdown love with a
custom keyboard and selection actions to do things like add a header,
bold, link, &c. - Markdown preview, plus *outline mode from document
headers* - Export Markdown or HTML to clipboard, email, tumblr, twitter
and other services

Something Special - Quick research pane to look up any word in
Terminology or DuckDuckGo - Browser with DuckBar (gets you DuckDuckGo
goodies (math, facts, &c) and bang (!) shorthand for loads of
site-specific searches) - Text-only browsing mode - Reading queue,
either local or Instapaper - Bookmarks, either local or Delicious or
Pinboard - Tag suggestions from Delicious or Pinboard

Point being: everything you do in Writing Kit can be cloudified: Dropbox
files, Instapaper queue, Pinboard bookmarks.

Link whichever dropbox folder you like Fonts: decent selection

Suggestions:

Replace the T icon with a standard i circle, place it on the far left.
On there, you should be able to change file name, font, and see word
count.

Replace the drawer icon in the upper left with a back arrow like
Elements, or use a standard back tab with the word 'Files'. Replace this
with a blue done button in edit mode. This will allow you to remove the
hide keyboard icon from the keyboard.

Use Nebulous Note style full screen mode, with touch-to-edit and hide
keyboard.

Merge the browser and the quick research modes. Leave

Use the modified keyboard style of Panic's Prompt.

Elements' style select linked folder.

Some missing features: - full screen mode - file name searching

-   sorting (modification date only)
-   word count
-   per file fonts

  [Writing Kit]: http://getwritingkit.com/
  [New Jersey approach]: http://dreamsongs.com/WIB.html
