---
layout: post
title: hello world
date: 2004-12-03T02:23:00
---

hi there. my name is joseph anthony pasquale holsten. i am a very
unusual person. you would have figured that out, but if that is a
problem, feel free to leave. i do not care about your opinion. even
yours jamie, nathan, paul, diane. now that that has been settled, let us
begin.

the first thing you may have noticed is the lack of capital letters and
contractions. these are more difficult to read, and the only reason that
the standard is all capitals instead of lower case is the name of god.
well look at that, although i use no capitals, you realize that i use
the definite case for the noun. amazing.

i also read a lot, and use [furl][]. i do not know if i can openly
publish my furl links, but for now i will simply link inside this page.
typing of furl, i use a plethora of tools to get me through the day.
every so often i stumble upon a new one and will give you some info on
it. furl is useful for a specialized purpose, that is to save web sites.
i just typed a page of description, but you can get that at [furl][].

oh, also unusual is my interest in linguistics. my current favorite
language is [esperanto][]. the title of this page is esperanto for free
ideas. that would be free as in liberty, not as in beer as [rms][] says.
you should [learn it][] for free as in beer. you recieve a diploma for
completion, and can communicate with a personal tutor via email. i liked
it so much the first time, i am taking it a second time. actually i just
forgot esperanto from lack of use. i am very lazy.

also, [gmail][] is to email what [furl][] is to bookmarks, or the other
way around if that helps. if you want to join, i have two invitations
left at present.

please maintain your computer, especially if you use windows. i will
glady help with anything you need me to do. if you have not at least
installed a virus scanner, firewall, and spyware remover, contact me
immediately. i am putting together a collection of free, like beer,
tools to maintain windows machines, i would love to give you a copy. so
far i am planning on including [avg antivirus][], [zone alarm
firewall][], [adaware][], [spybot search & destroy][]. along with those
will be [mozilla][], for its popup blocking and features, and
[thunderbird][] for email, because outlook express is terrible.

i refuse to write in a concluding style.

  [furl]: http://www.furl.com
  [esperanto]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esperanto
  [rms]: http://www.stallman.org
  [learn it]: http://pacujo.net/esperanto/course/
  [gmail]: https://gmail.google.com
  [avg antivirus]: http://free.grisoft.com/freeweb.php/doc/1/
  [zone alarm firewall]: http://www.zonelabs.com/store/content/catalog/products/sku_list_za.jsp
  [adaware]: http://www.lavasoftusa.com/software/adaware/
  [spybot search & destroy]: http://www.spybot.info
  [mozilla]: http://www.mozilla.org
  [thunderbird]: http://www.mozilla.org/products/thunderbird/
