---
layout: post
date: 2009-02-09 08:56:57
title: XRD API
---

[Marc Canter][] has been talking about his idea of the [Open Mesh][],
especially its dashboard. In the new web, I've got all my services
spread all over. The dashboard presents a centralized place to tie all
these outside services together. To actually make all of these things
work together, there are a bunch of pieces missing. The dashboard needs
a way to connect to these services, a way to group the people who can
access those services, and a way tell those services what rights those
groups have to access them. So this is the first in a series of
brainstorming about the gaps in the [OpenStack][] to be filled to make
this work.

Today, plenty of people want to tie together their identity from
different places on the internet. They maintain a list of their
identities at Flickr, Twitter, Magnolia, Plaxo and Brightkite. If
they're geeky, they may even mark these links with hCard attributes, so
those places are marked `rel="me"`. The geekiest keep a single page
showing everything happening at those services, perhaps with Plaxo or
FriendFeed or an Activity Streams plugin on their blog. But when you've
got an account over at Ma.gnolia, there isn't a good way to push that
service back to your OpenID so it can advertise that you store your
links there. Right now, you have to collect those identities manually.
Doesn't that just smell ripe for automation?

If you use OpenID, there is a document somewhere saying all the services
your ID supports. For the moment, the list of possible services is
pretty small. Your ID might be able to send your registration
information, like name and email address, or maybe your PGP key. But
right now, there isn't much you can advertise in your discovery
document. There isn't a way to send your photo gallery, your microblog,
your bookmarks.

But even if there were, there isn't a simple way to update those
services. The way disco docs work today requires someone to manually
edit the disco doc to add a service. Even if that disco doc is
automatically generated, it's probably only generating services for
stuff the OpenID Provider knows how to play with. So your service
provider needs a way to tell the disco doc it wants to play.

It shouldn't be too hard to design a service where Ma.gnolia can send a
request to be added to the disco doc. All it really needs to do is send
what type of service it is, and where the service lives. Since an
[XRDS][OpenStack] disco doc has a format for this info, it is natural to
send it:

```.xml
&lt;Service&gt;
  &lt;Type&gt;http://ma.gnolia.com/links/1.0&lt;/Type&gt;
  &lt;URI&gt;http://ma.gnolia.com/josephholsten&lt;/URI&gt;
&lt;/Service&gt;
```

These services need to be able to be added to, updated and deleted. The
[Atom Publishing Protocol][] is a great example of a protocol to handle
collections like this. The real trick is to treat the XRDS document as a
service link collection and give each of these service links a URI so
they can be updated and deleted. With this API, it would be simple to
access the services attached to an OpenID.

But doesn't that mean any site could post some new service onto your
identity? Not if we ensure the service is authorized to post before we
do anything. And the most powerful general purpose authentication
protocol today is OAuth.

Most of the time, you know if you want the service attached to your
disco doc when you log in at the service. Assuming it lets you log in
with OpenID, your OpenID Provider can just ask you if it should also
give the service access to add to your disco doc. If you agree, the
OpenID Provider can send an authorized OAuth Access Token along when it
authenticates you to the service. The service posts its disco
information to your disco doc, and Bob's your uncle.

But since the [OpenID-OAuth Hybrid][] protocol is not finished yet, the
service provider could just ask to get authorized to post to your disco
doc itself. It would send you to your disco doc's authentication
endpoint, you allow access, and the service can then update your disco
doc like before.

The great thing about OAuth is that it allows us to control exactly who
can update the disco doc. A smart dashboard would allow you to delete a
service, all the endpoints it created, and revoke that service's access
to your disco doc.

To wrap up, I'd like to mention some alternatives to an XRDS protocol
modeled after AtomPub. First, this data shouldn't be in XRDS, but
microformats or RDF. I sympathize and am convinced there should be
representations of this data as both microformats and RDF, but think
XRDS is optimized for just this case. Alternatively, this information
could be pushed back via an XML-RPC or SOAP protocol. But since the end
result is to change an XRDS document, HTTP verbs are well suited to the
actions that would actually be used, where an RPC implementation would
simply reinvent standard HTTP procedures and unnecessarily confuse the
semantics. Finally, this could be implemented as an OpenID AX pushback
service. But as as I know of no services using AX, there is little
precedent to build upon. Regardless, I only want the simplest protocol
that does the job, so if you can present something better I will gladly
support it. Whatever gets the job done.

  [Marc Canter]: http://blog.broadbandmechanics.com/
  [Open Mesh]: http://blog.broadbandmechanics.com/2008/05/how-to-build-the-open-mesh
  [OpenStack]: http://netmesh.info/jernst/2008/11/05
  [Atom Publishing Protocol]: http://bitworking.org/projects/atom/rfc5023.html
  [OpenID-OAuth Hybrid]: http://step2.googlecode.com/svn/spec/openid_oauth_extension/latest/openid_oauth_extension.html
