---
layout: post
date: 2009-02-24T09:16:01
title: Still No Reputation Networks?
---

I really want a decent reputation network. Reputation networks are
simple concept. Many have tried, but they just haven’t been done well
yet. None has brought science fiction’s imagination of the reputation
network into reality.

Cory Doctorow’s [Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom][] is the best
fictional reputation network idea I’ve seen. Everyone uses its whuffie
system, pervading its society like Google has ours. People would hardly
have a conversation without checking your whuffie, seeing who strongly
trust and distrust you, seeing who you mutually respect, who hate you
both. Just like you’d quickly Google to research a bit of trivia.

But there is nothing yet like this system. There are networks where all
your friends might have an account, but it’s hard to see what that
social graph really implies. Still, there are some interesting tools
today.

One of the first reputation networks was Pretty Good Privacy’s [Web of
Trust][]. Originally invented in 1992, there are a handful of good and
free plugins to work with Outlook, Mail.app, or GMail in Firefox. And
while I use PGP for all my email, I only have three people in my Web of
Trust. Compare that to my Facebook [friends][] or Twitter [followers][]
and it’s easy to see this old school reputation network is probably past
its prime.

At the moment, [Karmasphere][] and [Naymz][] are the only companies
trying to make whuffie real. Karmasphere is designed for programmers,
not regular folks. It is just a database with reputation scores for
certain identifiers like URIs and IP addresses. Naymes vaguely resembles
a poorly designed LinkedIn with a reputation number tacked on. And it
can’t manage to import much of the existing I already have spread about
the web. So while these things aren’t well known or easy to use, they
are out there.

The trouble with these networks is that their goal is to provide my One
True Reputation™ value. Whereas PGP only says
whether someone really is who they say they are. EBay ratings don’t mind
if you are lying about your legal name, but they do care if you satisfy
your customers. But startups like [Grocio][] give real information we
can use. Grocio just compares stores by reporting the prices of certain
items. It doesn’t waste our time rating cleanliness, customer service or
trendiness. It is hard data that we need while we’re getting used to
searching to compare real things.

Eventually, places like [Consumer Reports][] and the [Better Business
Bureau][] will start requiring claims be written by people who can prove
they are who they say they are. That means if you won’t login with an
OpenID or a X509 client certificate or a PGP key, then they won’t trust
what you say at all. Once that happens, then I can decide if I want to
trust your Yelp review based on whether you are someone I really trust.

  [Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom]: http://craphound.com/down/
  [Web of Trust]: http://www.pgpi.org/doc/pgpintro/#p17
  [friends]: http://www.facebook.com/people/Joseph-Holsten/17122942
  [followers]: http://twitter.com/josephholsten
  [Karmasphere]: http://karmasphere.com
  [Naymz]: http://naymz.com
  [Grocio]: http://www.grocio.com/
  [Consumer Reports]: http://consumerreports.org
  [Better Business Bureau]: http://bbb.org
