Title: Augmented Web

Augmented reality companies really want to be Netscape. I'm sure being
[swallowed by AOL][] then swallowed by Time Warner aren't part of the
dream, but still. I bet there's at least a few engineers pushing
themselves to a breakdown trying to [be JWZ][].

That's well and good, but we aren't there yet. The thing that made
Netscape awesome wasn't just that it was awesome. It was that you could
put things on your own machine and anyone with Netscape could see [how
awesome you were][]. That's not how augment browsers work today, they're
totally into the app store mentality.

Tidy, curated stores work well to market a narrow segment of
self-contained products. Unfortunately, today's augment layers are built
by people who think in hypermedia. These layers span a broad expanse of
topics and have interest connections and dependencies to other
hypermedia. Plenty of them are just scraping localized data from
hypermedia feeds like Twitter or Flickr. App stores suck for hypermedia.

Some augments may eventually work well in app stores. But they'll have
to be self-contained, or for scarce information, or special purpose.

That's not what people think of when you say augmented reality today. We
think of all the layers we'd like to have active during our day, easily
accessible. We think of swimming through augments tangled into our daily
experiences. We think about augments that are always available.

Obviously there's a place for a different kind of augment. Something you
only turn on occasionally and give complete focus. Business tools make
sense like this. A retail manager wouldn't want to see heatmaps of
customer attention all the time, but occasionally drilling into that
could guide product placement. Similarly, you probably don't want your
high-stakes poker game up all the time, but when it's up you won't have
twitbook and myface statups updates tangled into your peripheral vision.
These augments deserve an app store.

It's hard to ignore that I can't actually make those augments today.
Like the early web, interactivity is pretty poor. A basic event model
with click events, timers and async data requests would go a long way.

We need to see karma and arml merge.

camera in html?

x3d + camera.js + html5 = done?

  [swallowed by AOL]: http://www.nytimes.com/library/tech/98/11/biztech/articles/24clash.html
  [be JWZ]: http://www.jwz.org/gruntle/nscpdorm.html
  [how awesome you were]: http://mostawesomestthingever.com
